Hello and welcome to this Python
tutorial and mostly to part 1: artificial neural networks.
I'm super excited to start this part, to eventually
get to deep learning because this is one
of the most fascinating branch of machine learning.
Not only the most fascinating, but also the most
powerful, you will see that we will build
very powerful machinery models, which will be
based on deep neural networks. And that
is why today deep learning is used for many
power de-mending and highly compute intensive
tasks, like for example computer vision and medicine.
In fact, deep learning can be used for a variety
of purposes from making predictions or
testifications for business problems
as what we're about to do right now, or for
computer vision like recognizing faces and
pictures or videos. Or even recognizing
tumors in some brain images. And it
is also used for recommended systems, with the
use of deep Boltzmann machines.
But today, we are going to solve this
business problem described by Kirill in
the previous tutorial and we are
going to solve this business problem
using artificial neural networks.
So, as you understand in the business problem
description, the problem that we are about to
deal with is a classification problem.
We have several independent variables like the
credit score, the balance, the number of products.
And based on these independent variables,
we are trying to predict which customers are
leaving the bank. So basically what we're about
to do is a classification problem and
artificial neural networks can do a terrific job
at doing this, at making that kind of predictions.
Alright, so let's build our artificial neural
network to solve our business problem,
as usual the most efficient way.
To do this the most efficient way, we need to
install a special library which is the Keras library.
And that's what we're going to do in this tutorial.
So as you can see here, I'm not only
installing the Keras library, I'm also
installing the Theano library and the
Tensoflow library. So before we install these
three libraries, I'm going to explain to you what
they are. Alright, so let's start with Theano.
Theano is an open source numerical
computations library, very efficient for
fast numerical computations. And that is
based on numpy syntax. But what is also
great about this library, is that it can
run not only on your CPU but also on your JPU.
So, as a reminder, CPU means central processing
unit and it's basically the main processor on
your computer that is used for general purpose,
like general tasks that are not graphic tasks.
And speaking of graphic tasks, there is another
processor that runs computations for that and
this processor is called the JPU.
So it's a processor for graphic purposes, exactly
like the graphic card you have on your machine.
And so, in terms of power and in terms of
computation efficiency, the JPU is much more
powerful because it has many more cores and
it's able to run a lot more floating points
calculations per second, than the CPU.
Therefore, the CPU is much more specialized for
highly compute-intensive tasks and parallel computations,
exactly as it is the case for neural networks.
You know, when we are forward-propagating the
activations of the different neurons in the
neural networks, thanks to the activation functions.
Well, that exactly involves parallel computations.
And saying when the arrow is back-propagated in
the neural network, well that involves again
parallel computations. Alright, so basically,
the JPU is a much better choice for neural
networks, especially when you're building deep
neural networks to do deep learning.
But for simple neural networks, you can still use your CPU.
Alright, so that's this Theano library, that by
the way, was developed by a machinery group
of people at the University of Montreal.
And now, what about Tensoflow?
So, Tensoflow is another open-source
numerical computations library that runs
very fast computations and again that
can run on your CPU or your JPU.
This library was originally developed by
the Google brain team at Google and is
now under the Apache 2.0 license.
And the important thing to understand here
is that these two libraries are used, mostly
for research and development purposes in the
deep learning field. That means that if you
wanna use these two libraries for deep learning,
you would use them to build a deep neural network
from scratch. That is with many lines of code,
which is great if you wanna do some research in order
to improve the deep neural networks, invent and
develop a new kind of deep neural network, or
any other kind of deep learning models, but that
would require a lot of lines of code.
That is why, in this section, we are not
going to directly use Theano and Tensoflow.
We're gonna use another library that, in some way,
wraps the libraries here, Theano and Tensoflow.
And this library is, as you might have guessed,
the Keras library. The Keras library is an
amazing library to build deep learning models
like deep neural networks in a very few lines of code.
So, we are still staying in the same spirit of
this course, since we're gonna build very
powerful deep neural networks with
only a few lines of code and that is
only thanks to this Keras library.
This library was developed by François Chollet,
a machine learning scientist again at Google.
Alright so to summarize, Keras is a library
based on Theano and Tensoflow, that means that
it runs on Theano and Tensoflow libraries and
exactly as we use scikit-learn to build very
efficiently machine learning models, we will use
Keras to build deep learning models very efficiently.
Great so now, let's install those three libraries.
Okay, so there are several ways to install these
libraries and of course I'm gonna give you the
simplest solution. The solution I'm going to give
you works on most systems and if by any chance
it doesn't work on your system, then don't worry
in the zip folder of this section, you will find
a document that will give you the instructions
on how to install Theano, Tensoflow and
Keras depending on your system.
And besides, for those of you who are interested
in installing Tensoflow on your JPU, you will
also find the instructions on how to do that.
But here, I'm going to show you the simplest
solution and it will get you install Theano,
Tensoflow and Keras in no time.
So let's do it. The first thing we
need to do is open a terminal and
to do this you have two options.
The first option is to go to tools on top
of spider and then click on open a terminal.
This will open the terminal and you can
enter the commands that I'm about to show you.
And the second option and this is the one
I'm gonna show you, is to open the
main terminal on your machine.
So, since I'm on a mac, I'm gonna press
command+space to open the terminal.
So here I'm typing terminal. Press enter.
And here I am on the main terminal of my machine.
Okay so just so you know, I just uninstalled
Anaconda and reinstalled it so I can be just
like you, that is about to install Theano,
Tensoflow and Keras for the first time.
And now, I'm going to install Theano, Tensoflow
and Keras in three very efficient steps.
First step is to install Theano and to do this
we simply need to enter 'pip install theano'
and press enter. And this will install
Theano as you can see it and already
successfully installed. Perfect!
Now, second step, let's install Tensoflow.
So to do it, it's the same, very simply, 'pip
install tensoflow' spelt this way.
Alright, and then enter. And here we go,
collecting Tensoflow and right now, it's installing
Tensoflow so it's taking just a little more time.
But here we go, Tensoflow is correctly installed.
Perfect! And now, let's install Keras.
And, as you might have guessed, this is
going to be as simple, we do 'pip install keras',
here we go and let's press enter.
Downloading Keras, and successfully installed Keras.
So, as I told you, we just installed Theano,
Tensoflow and Keras in no time.
So now the installation is done, but we need
to do one last thing, it's to upgrade all
these libraries to the most up-to-date version.
And again, we're gonna do this the most
efficient way and the trick to do this in one
shot (and this will upgrade Theano, Tensoflow
and Keras at the same time), the trick is
to do 'kunda' then 'update' then '--all'.
Alright, and then we press enter. And this will update
everything, not only Theano, Tensoflow and Keras
but also everything in Anaconda as well as Spider.
And actually, this is all that will be updated
because as I just told you, I just re-installed
Anaconda, so it's like I'm installing it for the
first time and so here we just have to
confirm and press 'y' and then press enter.
Alright and now it's updating everything
including Theano, Tensoflow and Keras.
Alright, so it's taking a little
while but it's gonna be over soon.
And here we go, that's done. So now,
you have Theano, Tensoflow and Keras
installed on your machine, congratulations
and remember for those of you who couldn't
make this solution work, then don't worry, please
go to the zip folder of this section and you
will find some documents with additional
instructions on how to install Theano,
Tensoflow and Keras for the different
systems Mac, Windows and Linux.
Alright so I'm gonna close the terminal
because now everything is installed,
we're ready to go and now the first thing
that we're gonna do and that must be done
anytime we start making a deep learning model,
is to set the right folder as working directory.
So let's do it right now so that it's done
and we can start already in the next tutorial.
Okay so to set the right folder as working
directory, you need to go to 'file explorer' here
and then find the 'deep learning a-z' folder.
So this is folder is available in the
resources of this course, make sure to
download it and for example, you can put it
in your desktop as I did here.
So first let's start by opening this folder and
we see that it contains three sub-folders.
Get the machine learning basics that contains
two templates, so the classification
template that we'll use to create the first
deep learning model, artificial neural network.
And the data preprocessing template, that is a
very useful template to pre process any data set.
So for those of you who did not take the
machine learning course, well in the last section of
this course, you will find the 'get the machine
learning basics' section and you will find
all the tutorials that explains how we make
these two templates, the classification
template and the data pre processing template.
Alright, so that's the first folder and then we
have our two main folders corresponding to
the two volumes of this course.
'Volume 1 - Supervised deep learning' and
'Volume 2 - Unsupervised deep learning'.
Okay so of course to find the right folder we
wanna set as working directory, we need to go
to Volume 1 because that's where we are.
So, 'Volume 1 - Supervised deep learning' and we
are now in 'Part 1 - Artificial Neural Network'.
Okay and just in the previous section you
were with Curial for the ANN intuition
and now you are in section 4 building an ANN,
this folder is exactly the folder you
wanna set as working directory.
And why's that? It's for a specific
reason, it's because it contains the data
set, churn modeling, which is the
data set of our business problem.
And then, this folder contains other files so you
have, the 'ann.py' file which is the Python
file that we're about to make.
By the way, make sure to create this new
Python file and save it in this sub-folder
because you need to save your Python file
in the working directory folder, that is the
folder that contains your data set.
Okay, and then you have the classification
template, Python file, that was taken from
the classification template folder in the
section 'Get the Machine Learning basics'
because we will need this classification
template to prepare efficiently our
artificial neural network. So, classification
template and then you also have this
category called 'Data Template' which we will
use to deal with a category called 'Variables'
that we will find in our data set, churn modeling.
You will see that this data set contains
some category called 'Variables' and we will
need to encode them in a special way and
so we will use this category called 'Data
Python' file to do it more efficiently.
And then as promised, you have the
installations instructions pdf, that
contains more instructions on how to
install Theano, Tensoflow and Keras in case
the installation we just did didn't work for you.
Alright, so that's the folder you wanna set as
working directory and so to set it as working
directory you simply need to click on this 'tool'
button here and click on 'Set console working
directory'. Here we go, and now, you have the right
folder set as working directory and you're ready
to start making your first deep learning model.
So congratulations! We have some very exciting
tutorials ahead of us and I can't wait to start.
Until then, enjoy deep learning!